#+HTML:<div align=center><img src=./images/ubuntu-canonical-logo.png>
#+CAPTION: Arch Linux
#+NAME: Fig. 1
[[./images/arch-linux-logo.png]]

* Arch Linux 

#+HTML:</div>

Arch Linux is a minimalist and flexible Linux distribution, characterized for an excellent documentation and thousands of high-quality packages, allowing users to design a highly customized system. This is completely opposite to Linux beginner-friendly distributions which provides a pre-configured system with packages that can be unnecessary, or designed for user data collection (e.g. Ubuntu and Canonical's commercial nature).

#+CAPTION: Ubuntu/Canonical
#+NAME: Fig. 2
[[./images/ubuntu-canonical-logo.png]]

Arch Linux encourage users to assembly a system selecting packages based on it purpose that fits their unique needs. As a result, users will obtain a lightweight and powerful Linux system, versatile and easy to manage. For beginners, Arch Linux installation process, configuration and debugging, can be challenging specially when the documentation have not being read extensively.


The purpose of this github repository is to contain all the essential tips to install and customize Arch Linux, including how-to design scripts to automatize such a processes. Accumulating the experience acquired after read the documentation and experiment with it.

** Why Arch Linux instead of many other Linux distritutions 

The answer is simply, reproducibility and sharing!. But please, let me explain why:

As a researcher, the scientific activity involves making scientific
methods, data and outcomes available for everyone. Make science open
and reproducible allow other scientist to replicate and adapt such
methods to their own needs, contributions that summarized can be
translated into a collaborative global progress.

This contributive philosophy is also present in the open source
operating system Linux, which source code is easily available for
everyone. Anyone capable of coding can contribute, modify, enhance and
distribute the code to anyone and for any purpose, with hundreds of distributions available.

Linux beginner-friendly distributions provides a pre-configured system
with packages that can be unnecessary, or designed for user data
collection (e.g. Ubuntu and Canonical's commercial nature). On the
other hand, Arch Linux offer a different and more functional approach.

Arch Linux system can customize to fit specific needs, avoiding
packages that can compromise sensitive data. Due to its minimalist
design, an Arch Linux system can be easily reproduced and distributed
to other users, by building an USB/CD ISO image or installed as a
persistent live USB drive. Arch Linux require less space and memory
resources than beginner-friendly distributions, facilitating to
migrate a running Arch Linux to another machine, a KVM instance or a
VirtualBox machine.
